Stacks for thienscorner's project:
SQ Lite - database
Sequel - Ruby Library to interact with SQlite
Sinatra - Ruby Web framework 
Angular JS + SASS - Dynamic data and styling

Github acct:
thien-truong
moments1ever@gmail.com
Teddy611

Databases: PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle, SQLites - which holds datas and glorified speadsheets.  

Ruby Database Libraries:  Sequel, Active Record - one type of library can be used is ORM (Object Relational Mapper) - allow users to interact with a database using Ruby code.

Web frameworks: Sinatra, Rails, Django - Will handle requests from the webserver side, interacting with the database.

Template languages: Angular JS, ERB (for Rails) - Allow user to inject dynamic datas to your html.  Ex:  multiple recipes

***To install Ruby things, use Rbenv and Bundler.  Ruby Environment allows user to specify a certain version of ruby for the project.  Bundler allows user to install Ruby libraries (aka Gems) to your ruby version.

Gemfile:  will allow you to keep a list of gem you use.

01-04-14
Eventually, we must find a way to create/read/update/delete (CRUD) recipe/repices.  We started a page for reading one recipe. We can try to create in the database a table to store recipes and insert the data for our one recipe.

Create database.rb.  Add 'sqlite3' to Gemfile.  bundle install.  rbenv rehash

Try to create a recipe table in database.rb.

Each row is a recipe.

7 columns: name, yield (servings), time prepare, time cook, ingredients, directions, special notes (optional).

A column can only hold one piece of info.  1 column cannot hold all ingredients, must create another table for ingredients as well as directions.

Created a table that has 4 columns:  name, servings, preparation_minutes, cook_minutes.

Created 'zuppa tuscana' recipe.

*Once a table is created, re-running with additional info will cause error.  Must remove thienscorner.db before re-running database.rb.

Next step: Using Angular.JS and Sinatra and Sequel to read 'zuppa tuscana' recipe from the database and display as html file.o

01-05-14
Modify index.html using Angular .JS

01-08-14
Doing Angular JS tutorial - step 0
camelCase:  a naming convention in which a name is formed of multiple words that are joined together as a single word with the first letter of each word capitalized.
Questions:  How to detele one letter using vim?  How to go to a line?
bootstrap:  In computing, a bootstrap loader is the first piece of code that runs when a machine starts, and is responsible for loading the rest of the operating system.
DOM = Document Object Model - is an application programming interface (API) for documents.  It defines the logical structure of documents and the way a document is accessed and manipulate (build, navigate, add, modify, delete, etc).
